>> Speaker 1: When we use
the loading.tsx in the background,
does it know it's related to
the suspense component in the layout?
>> Scott Moss: I got rid of this,
the loading.tsx is essentially
the fallback that gets placed
inside of a suspense for
your children that gets added for you.
So as you can see in the layout,
I don't have the suspense anymore.
I got rid of it.
I mean, it's still being imported
at the top, but I'm not using it.
The suspense is no longer
here in the layout.
If you have the loading,
you don't need the suspense.
Next.js will do essentially what we did.
It will wrap this in a suspense for
you, and then for the fallback,
it will use this component.
So you're essentially telling next.js,
wrap the children in a suspense and
use this JSX as a fallback.
>> Speaker 2: So it just automatically
goes in between your layout and
its children.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
Cool.
Any other questions?
Yep.
>> Speaker 1: Just to make sure
I'm understanding the terms.
Suspending versus caching is
the same as dynamic versus static.
>> Scott Moss: Ooh, yeah, in the regards
to what Next.js understands,
if you suspend something,
you're telling Next.js that I
always want this to be dynamic.
This could change at any time.
So I want this to be live every time.
Every time someone goes to this route,
always hit the server,
always run this function,
always calculate it again,
just like an API route,
just always go and do it again.
Caching is like, actually,
I don't want this to be run every time.
I want this to be stored in a cache.
And you can do that on a page level.
You can do that on a function level.
You can go as nested as you
want with the use cache.
So in that case it would be static.
But those caches can have expiration times
on them, so they're not completely static.
They can expire and
then be executed live again.
So it's not like completely static as
in it will never change, it's just, I
want you to cache this up until I tell you
to stop caching it or until it expires.
Whereas suspense is never cached.
I think the way they model it
now that it's just coming to me,
it's basically just how
an API route would work.
If you put a network caching
layer in front of an API route,
something like Cloudflare or something
like that, or whatever you use for
caching, it could be any type of CDN,
proxy, whatever.
There's always a TTL.
You can warm up the cache
when you mutate the database.
When you write to a table,
you might go clear the cache or expire or
evict things out of the cache
because the data is old now.
You might put some new things in there.
They modeled it after that.
So it's like if you put
a suspense on something,
you're just gonna go to
the database every single time.
It's never gonna be cached.
But if you wanna add some type
of network caching layer,
then you would say use cache and
then that would put a cache in front
of whatever async operation you're
doing up until you want it to expire.
And you can expire it manually or
you can expire it with a ttl.
So that's kind of the way
I think about it.
It works the same way as like
you would cache API routes,
just a different flavor of that.
>> Speaker 3: In terms of the data
access layer functions again, so
we're kind of calling the get current
user within these components, right?
Like new issue, for example, for
deleteIssue button that one is use client.
So that one was a client one.
So would that have an issue using
those data access error functions and
like that if we were
to call that in there?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so you're saying-
>> Speaker 3: Since it's a client
sizes use client,
would that cause issues like calling those
Dell functions in there since
those are server related?
>> Scott Moss: Well, delete issue.
Cuz you're saying deleteIssue
has a dependency on,
can you take me to delete issue, please?
Okay, that was where.
Maybe I didn't make it yet.
I didn't make it yet.
Okay, well, first of all, let's look at
deleteIssue will be coming from action.
So it would be a server action and
not a data access layer function.
So yeah.
>> Speaker 3: That one's fine.
But so we were calling the actual new
issue, for example, we were calling
the get current user, which is one of
those data access layer functions, right?
I see.
We wouldn't be able to do the same thing
in that delete issue button, correct?
>> Scott Moss: You can call these
functions in server actions if you want,
cuz these are just regular
node JS functions.
They have no idea what
they're going to like.
You can call them if you want, because
they both have access to the same thing.
They both are expected to be ran
during some type of request cycle,
whether that's during a server action or
a react server component.
So the expectation is that they
should have access to the same
thing no matter when they're called.
So that is a good pattern.
Some people will just
have these just be like,
these are functions that
will just run on a request,
whether it's a react server component or
whether it's a server action.
And then inside your server
actions you can pull these in.
But I don't think you would pull
server actions into these though.
It would be the other way around.
That answer your question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, somewhat.
I mean, so is like the delete Issue,
but is that a server side component.
>> Scott Moss: Delete Issue?
This button right here,
this is a client component.
>> Speaker 3: Client component.
>> Scott Moss: Yes,
this is a client component.
So it can use server actions.
Right, cuz you can use.
So this is the part that
I was talking about.
So far we've used server
actions with the use
action state hook but
you can can just call this.
You can just put this on an on click and
call it and it'll work.
It'll work just fine.
Cuz I want you to think of when you
see a server action is like this is
a function that is
essentially doing a fetch.
You can just call a server action from
any interaction in a client component,
just like you can do
the same thing with a fetch.
So the client component doesn't care.
It's just gonna call this.
In this case, we're doing it.
We haven't talked about it, but
we're gonna do a usetransition.
And this is how you would get
the similar functionality
we got from use action state but
without having to use a form.
In this case, this would be like,
what is this?
HandleDelete I'm guessing it's on a click,
so.
So on a click call handleDelete and
this just starts a transition and
I'll talk about that later.
This is like a react specific thing,
but I don't have to.
I could just call await deleteIssue
without this transition.
And it'll just do it because essentially
this is just a fetch that's going to
the server, it's doing a thing and
it's coming back.
It's almost as if you made
this function yourself and
literally put fetch inside of it.
So there's no issue with
it using an action.
Now if you try to use
one of these functions
inside of delete Issue, it would not work.
>> Speaker 3: Right,
that's what I figured.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it would not work
because you don't have Use Server at
the top.
It'd be like,
this is just a regular node function.
In fact,
I don't think it would even compile.
I think it'll just break as soon
as you try to, what's something in
here that I know doesn't work like
this does not work on the browser.
This would break immediately because
it doesn't know because you didn't
give it a directive.
It's like I just assumed this
is client side JavaScript, so
it's just gonna try to bundle it.
It's gonna try to bundle this
whole file into the client.
And if that works for some reason,
it's definitely not gonna execute because
there's no way in hell
this works in the browser.
There's no way in hell, well,
maybe Drizzle works in the browser,
I don't know.
But a lot of this database stuff
doesn't work in a browser.
So it's going to break then.
>> Speaker 1: So many of those other
components within that directory,
like new issue, for example,
those don't have a directive up top.
So those are just like server
components by default?
>> Scott Moss: Yes,
if you don't have a directive up top,
you are essentially gonna
be a server component.
Or if your parent, like for instance, if
those components are rendered in something
that's a client component, then it's
assumed that those components are client
components too, so they'll inherit from
their parent if you don't have something.
Pages are different
because they're top level.
There's nothing above a page.
So by default those are react server
components unless you explicitly
say Use Client, everything else kind
of just inherits from its parent.
And then you'll run into issues is when
like for instance, if I make a component
that's using hooks and I don't put use
client at the top and I import that and
somewhere in that chain, that hierarchy,
there is a server component.
It's gonna error out and be like, you
got to put use client on this component,
you're using hooks.
But if in that chain there
was all client components,
it wouldn't error out because like,
you're just in a client component.
So to avoid that,
it's good to be explicit about whether or
not you're in a server or not.
Unless you're in a page.
A page I think it's fine.
You don't always have to
put if it's client or not.
But for everything that's not a page,
you should explicitly put if
you're in a client or not.
>> Speaker 2: If we didn't
have the experimental flag on,
I know you said that it
would be caching by default.
Would supplying a loading state in
the router disable that caching and
would like tell next.js
that it would be a dynamic?
>> Scott Moss: No.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: It really
wants to cache for you.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, that has no
effect on whether it caches or not.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: Nothing to do with it.
The loading is still a thing and
it will still apply a suspense,
but it would only show it the first time
and then the second time it'll be cached.
So yeah, it has like look man,
the caching before dynamic I O and
use cache was crazy.
>> Speaker 2: Got you.
So
that's the three day session
on caching and validation.
>> Scott Moss: It is literally saying like
it's in the docs like and I'll link it.
You wanna check it out but in my opinion,
man, use Canary, use this until it's done.
It's way better.
Everything else is really,
really difficult in my opinion.